README.md, before:

# ai-practitioner-dev-os

AI Practitioner Booster 2026 — an **AI-driven, project-based learning OS** that evaluates your progress, adapts your curriculum, and keeps your best practices inside the repo.

It contains a generator prompt (`SETUP.md`), a tech stack selector (`STACK.md`), and a minimal set of instructions so **Claude Code** can generate the full learning system (folders, docs, templates, CI, etc.) into *your fork*.

---

## What you'll get after generation

When you run the generator prompt in Claude Code, it will generate a complete repo with:

- A `.claude/` folder containing:
  - **agents** (planner/builder/reviewer/evaluator/coach/researcher)
  - **commands** (`/status`, `/plan-week`, `/evaluate`, `/adapt-path`, etc.)
  - **skills** playbooks (EDA→insight, shipping APIs, RAG+evals, etc.)
  - **hooks** runnable scripts (week start/review, pre-publish checks)
  - **memory system** (`learner_profile.json`, progress logs, best practices)
  - **path-engine** (`evaluate.py`, `adapt.py`, `report.py`) using Python stdlib only
  - **MCP** tool contracts + server/client stubs
- `docs/` that explains the whole loop and how to use it day-to-day
- `paths/{{LEARNER_LEVEL}}/README.md` as your **main dashboard**
- `month-01 … month-12` curriculum (paced by Beginner/Intermediate/Advanced)
- Real runnable templates (FastAPI service, data pipeline, RAG service, eval harness)
- GitHub Actions CI (ruff + pytest)

> The learner level is pace-based and cumulative:
> - Beginner: Tier 1 only
> - Intermediate: Tier 1 + Tier 2
> - Advanced: Tier 1 + Tier 2 + Tier 3

---

## Prerequisites

### Required
- A GitHub account
- Claude Code access with GitHub repo integration enabled
- Git installed locally
- Python 3.11+ recommended
- VS Code recommended

### OS notes
- Linux / macOS: works out of the box
- Windows: use **WSL** (recommended) or **Git Bash** for running `.sh` hooks

---

## Two Ways to Generate Your Learning Path

### Option A: Full Curriculum (Recommended for most learners)
In Claude Code, run:
```
Execute @SETUP.md
```
Claude asks your level (Beginner/Intermediate/Advanced), then generates the **full curriculum** for your level's tiers using `STACK.md`.

### Option B: Custom Stack
1. Edit `MY_STACK.md` - check `[x]` only the technologies you want to learn
2. In Claude Code, run:
```
Execute @SETUP.md for @MY_STACK.md
```

### Tier Scope by Level (Cumulative)
| Level | Tiers Included | Scope |
|-------|----------------|-------|
| **Beginner** | Tier 1 only | Foundation (53 items) |
| **Intermediate** | Tier 1 + Tier 2 | Foundation + Shipping (148 items) |
| **Advanced** | Tier 1 + Tier 2 + Tier 3 | All tiers (175 items) |

---
[Watch the demo setup](https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/18cf45e2-aeb4-4580-b3b5-ada4db0b9513)
---

## Setup: Fork → Generate → Clone

### 1) Fork this repository
Click **Fork** on GitHub to create your own copy under your account.

### 2) Connect Claude Code to your fork
In Claude Code:
- Connect to GitHub
- Select your forked repo: **`ai-practitioner-dev-os`**

### 3) Run the generator prompt
Choose one of the two options:

**Option A: Full Curriculum** (use all items for your level)
```
Execute @SETUP.md
```

**Option B: Custom Stack** (use only selected items)
1. Edit `MY_STACK.md` and check `[x]` the technologies you want
2. Run:
```
Execute @SETUP.md for @MY_STACK.md
```

Claude will ask **one question** first:
- "What is the learner level? (Beginner / Intermediate / Advanced)"

After you answer, Claude will generate:
- the full folder tree customized to your level/stack
- all documentation
- scripts and templates
- CI workflow

> Tip: Let Claude commit changes directly to your fork (or create a PR if you prefer review).

### 4) Clone your generated repo locally
After generation completes on GitHub:

```bash
git clone https://github.com/<your-username>/ai-practitioner-dev-os.git
cd ai-practitioner-dev-os
```

### 5) Open in VS Code
```bash
code .
```

---

## Quickstart (first 10 minutes)

### A) Verify the generated structure exists
After generation, you should see:
- `STACK.md` (your tech stack selector)
- `.claude/README.md`
- `docs/how-to-use.md`
- `stacks/tiers.md`
- `paths/{{LEARNER_LEVEL}}/README.md` (your dashboard)
- `templates/*` and `.github/workflows/ci.yml`

### B) Run the learning OS loop (locally)
The engine scripts are inside:

- `.claude/path-engine/evaluate.py`
- `.claude/path-engine/adapt.py`
- `.claude/path-engine/report.py`

From the repo root:

```bash
python .claude/path-engine/evaluate.py
python .claude/path-engine/adapt.py
python .claude/path-engine/report.py
```

This produces/updates your tracker at:
- `paths/{{LEARNER_LEVEL}}/tracker.md`

> Important: `.claude/memory/*` is the append-only source of truth.  
> `paths/{{LEARNER_LEVEL}}/tracker.md` is a derived artifact and may be overwritten/regenerated by `report.py`.

### C) Start your first week
Open your dashboard:
- `paths/{{LEARNER_LEVEL}}/README.md`

Use the command workflow described in:
- `docs/commands.md` (friendly guide)
- `.claude/commands/catalog.md` (source of truth)

Typical first week:
- `/status`
- `/plan-week`
- `/start-week`
- do tasks
- `/retro`
- `/evaluate`
- `/adapt-path`

---

## How “implementation” works (the system loop)

This repo is designed to behave like a self-updating learning OS:

1. **Execute**: you work on the month project, ship deliverables, write reflections  
2. **Log**: you append progress to `.claude/memory/*` (progress log, decisions, best practices)  
3. **Evaluate**: `evaluate.py` reads memory + repo signals and computes scores  
4. **Adapt**: `adapt.py` proposes changes using only allowed mutations  
5. **Report**: `report.py` updates the learner tracker + weekly plan pointers  

### Allowed adaptations (what the system can change)
The generated repo defines and enforces these in `docs/evaluation/adaptation-rules.md`:

- Change learner level (Beginner ↔ Intermediate ↔ Advanced)
- Reorder upcoming months (within tier scope)
- Insert remediation week(s) inside a month
- Swap the month’s main project for an equivalent one

`adapt.py` is constrained to output **only** these mutations in a documented schema.

---

## Running hooks (week start / week review / pre-publish)

Generated scripts live in:
- `.claude/hooks/`

Examples:

```bash
bash .claude/hooks/pre_week_start.sh
bash .claude/hooks/post_week_review.sh
bash .claude/hooks/pre_publish_check.sh
```

### If you can’t run `.sh` scripts
See `docs/hooks.md` for:
- WSL / Git Bash guidance (Windows)
- Manual fallback steps (copy/paste commands)

---

## CI expectations (ruff + pytest)

After generation, GitHub Actions will run:
- `ruff` formatting/lint checks
- `pytest` test suites

Templates include:
- minimal pinned dependencies in `pyproject.toml`
- `[tool.ruff]` configuration
- `[tool.pytest.ini_options]` (or equivalent) so `pytest` runs consistently

If CI fails, start here:
- `docs/publishing/how-to-demo.md` (often includes sanity checks)
- `.github/workflows/ci.yml` (what CI actually runs)

---

## Where to start (navigation)

After generation, your main entry points are:

- **Dashboard:** `paths/{{LEARNER_LEVEL}}/README.md`
- **How to use:** `docs/how-to-use.md`
- **Commands guide:** `docs/commands.md`
- **Agents:** `docs/agents.md`
- **Skills playbook:** `docs/skills-playbook.md`
- **Evaluation rubric:** `docs/evaluation/rubric.md`
- **Memory system:** `docs/memory-system.md`
- **Claude capabilities root:** `.claude/README.md`

---

## Updating the system safely (recommended workflow)

- Keep changes PR-friendly:
  - Memory files: append-only (`.claude/memory/*.jsonl`, `best_practices.md`)
  - Tracker: derived, can be regenerated (`paths/{{LEARNER_LEVEL}}/tracker.md`)
- Prefer small PRs:
  - one improvement to docs
  - one improvement to a template
  - one improvement to evaluation rules

---

## Troubleshooting

### Claude generated a folder literally named “...”
This should not happen with the current `SETUP.md`. If it does:
- delete it
- re-run the generator prompt
- ensure you pasted the latest `SETUP.md` content

### Links in docs are broken
- Re-run the generator prompt and instruct Claude:
  - “Validate all relative links and fix any broken references.”

### My hooks don’t run on Windows
- Use WSL (recommended) or Git Bash
- Or follow the manual fallback steps in `docs/hooks.md`

---

## Repository Generator Prompt

In Claude Code, choose one:

| Command | Description |
|---------|-------------|
| `Execute @SETUP.md` | Full curriculum for your level (uses STACK.md) |
| `Execute @SETUP.md for @MY_STACK.md` | Custom stack (uses only checked items) |

Claude will ask for your learner level and generate the full learning OS into your fork.

> Re-running the setup may overwrite generated docs/templates; `.claude/memory/*` should remain append-only

Commit message:

Generate complete AI Practitioner Booster 2026 for Advanced level
This commit generates the full repository structure including:

- .claude/ folder with agents, commands, skills, hooks, memory, mcp, path-engine
- docs/ folder with complete documentation (how-to-use, system-overview,
  commands, agents, skills-playbook, hooks, memory-system, evaluation/*, publishing/*)
- stacks/ folder with tier definitions (tier-1-beginner, tier-2-intermediate, tier-3-advanced)
- paths/advanced/ folder with 12-month curriculum covering:
  - Month 01: Foundation & Environment Setup
  - Month 02: Data Analysis & Visualization
  - Month 03: Classical ML
  - Month 04: APIs & Microservices
  - Month 05: Deep Learning Foundations
  - Month 06: NLP & Embeddings
  - Month 07: RAG Systems
  - Month 08: Cloud & MLOps
  - Month 09: Kubernetes & Container Orchestration
  - Month 10: Streaming & Big Data
  - Month 11: Advanced ML & Performance
  - Month 12: Capstone & Portfolio
- templates/ folder with runnable templates:
  - template-fastapi-service
  - template-data-pipeline
  - template-rag-service
  - template-eval-harness
- examples/mini-example/ with sentiment analysis service
- .github/ folder with CI workflow and issue/PR templates

All files are complete and ready for use. Human-in-the-loop approval
workflow is enforced throughout the system.

README.md, after:

# ai-practitioner-dev-os

AI Practitioner Booster 2026 — an **AI-driven, project-based learning OS** that evaluates your progress, adapts your curriculum, and keeps your best practices inside the repo.

It contains a generator prompt (`SETUP.md`), a tech stack selector (`STACK.md`), and a minimal set of instructions so **Claude Code** can generate the full learning system (folders, docs, templates, CI, etc.) into *your fork*.

---

## Generated Repository (Advanced Level)

This repository has been generated for the **Advanced** learner level, which includes all Tier 1 + Tier 2 + Tier 3 technologies (175 items total).

### What's included:

- A `.claude/` folder containing:
  - **agents** (planner/builder/reviewer/evaluator/coach/researcher)
  - **commands** (`/status`, `/plan-week`, `/evaluate`, `/adapt-path`, etc.)
  - **skills** playbooks (EDA→insight, shipping APIs, RAG+evals, etc.)
  - **hooks** runnable scripts (week start/review, pre-publish checks)
  - **memory system** (`learner_profile.json`, progress logs, best practices)
  - **path-engine** (`evaluate.py`, `adapt.py`, `report.py`) using Python stdlib only
  - **MCP** tool contracts + server/client stubs
- `docs/` that explains the whole loop and how to use it day-to-day
- `paths/advanced/README.md` as your **main dashboard**
- `month-01 … month-12` curriculum (paced by Beginner/Intermediate/Advanced)
- Real runnable templates (FastAPI service, data pipeline, RAG service, eval harness)
- GitHub Actions CI (ruff + pytest)

> The learner level is pace-based and cumulative:
> - Beginner: Tier 1 only
> - Intermediate: Tier 1 + Tier 2
> - Advanced: Tier 1 + Tier 2 + Tier 3

---

## Prerequisites

### Required
- A GitHub account
- Claude Code access with GitHub repo integration enabled
- Git installed locally
- Python 3.11+ recommended
- VS Code recommended

### OS notes
- Linux / macOS: works out of the box
- Windows: use **WSL** (recommended) or **Git Bash** for running `.sh` hooks

---

## Two Ways to Generate Your Learning Path

### Option A: Full Curriculum (Recommended for most learners)
In Claude Code, run:
```
Execute @SETUP.md
```
Claude asks your level (Beginner/Intermediate/Advanced), then generates the **full curriculum** for your level's tiers using `STACK.md`.

### Option B: Custom Stack
1. Edit `MY_STACK.md` - check `[x]` only the technologies you want to learn
2. In Claude Code, run:
```
Execute @SETUP.md for @MY_STACK.md
```

### Tier Scope by Level (Cumulative)
| Level | Tiers Included | Scope |
|-------|----------------|-------|
| **Beginner** | Tier 1 only | Foundation (53 items) |
| **Intermediate** | Tier 1 + Tier 2 | Foundation + Shipping (148 items) |
| **Advanced** | Tier 1 + Tier 2 + Tier 3 | All tiers (175 items) |

---
[Watch the demo setup](https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/18cf45e2-aeb4-4580-b3b5-ada4db0b9513)
---

## Setup: Fork → Generate → Clone

### 1) Fork this repository
Click **Fork** on GitHub to create your own copy under your account.

### 2) Connect Claude Code to your fork
In Claude Code:
- Connect to GitHub
- Select your forked repo: **`ai-practitioner-dev-os`**

### 3) Run the generator prompt
Choose one of the two options:

**Option A: Full Curriculum** (use all items for your level)
```
Execute @SETUP.md
```

**Option B: Custom Stack** (use only selected items)
1. Edit `MY_STACK.md` and check `[x]` the technologies you want
2. Run:
```
Execute @SETUP.md for @MY_STACK.md
```

Claude will ask **one question** first:
- "What is the learner level? (Beginner / Intermediate / Advanced)"

After you answer, Claude will generate:
- the full folder tree customized to your level/stack
- all documentation
- scripts and templates
- CI workflow

> Tip: Let Claude commit changes directly to your fork (or create a PR if you prefer review).

### 4) Clone your generated repo locally
After generation completes on GitHub:

```bash
git clone https://github.com/<your-username>/ai-practitioner-dev-os.git
cd ai-practitioner-dev-os
```

### 5) Open in VS Code
```bash
code .
```

---

## Quickstart (first 10 minutes)

### A) Verify the generated structure exists
After generation, you should see:
- `STACK.md` (your tech stack selector)
- `.claude/README.md`
- `docs/how-to-use.md`
- `stacks/tiers.md`
- `paths/advanced/README.md` (your dashboard)
- `templates/*` and `.github/workflows/ci.yml`

### B) Run the learning OS loop (locally)
The engine scripts are inside:

- `.claude/path-engine/evaluate.py`
- `.claude/path-engine/adapt.py`
- `.claude/path-engine/report.py`

From the repo root:

```bash
python .claude/path-engine/evaluate.py
python .claude/path-engine/adapt.py
python .claude/path-engine/report.py
```

This produces/updates your tracker at:
- `paths/advanced/tracker.md`

> Important: `.claude/memory/*` is the append-only source of truth.  
> `paths/advanced/tracker.md` is a derived artifact and may be overwritten/regenerated by `report.py`.

### C) Start your first week
Open your dashboard:
- `paths/advanced/README.md`

Use the command workflow described in:
- `docs/commands.md` (friendly guide)
- `.claude/commands/catalog.md` (source of truth)

Typical first week:
- `/status`
- `/plan-week`
- `/start-week`
- do tasks
- `/retro`
- `/evaluate`
- `/adapt-path`

---

## How “implementation” works (the system loop)

This repo is designed to behave like a self-updating learning OS:

1. **Execute**: you work on the month project, ship deliverables, write reflections  
2. **Log**: you append progress to `.claude/memory/*` (progress log, decisions, best practices)  
3. **Evaluate**: `evaluate.py` reads memory + repo signals and computes scores  
4. **Adapt**: `adapt.py` proposes changes using only allowed mutations  
5. **Report**: `report.py` updates the learner tracker + weekly plan pointers  

### Allowed adaptations (what the system can change)
The generated repo defines and enforces these in `docs/evaluation/adaptation-rules.md`:

- Change learner level (Beginner ↔ Intermediate ↔ Advanced)
- Reorder upcoming months (within tier scope)
- Insert remediation week(s) inside a month
- Swap the month’s main project for an equivalent one

`adapt.py` is constrained to output **only** these mutations in a documented schema.

---

## Running hooks (week start / week review / pre-publish)

Generated scripts live in:
- `.claude/hooks/`

Examples:

```bash
bash .claude/hooks/pre_week_start.sh
bash .claude/hooks/post_week_review.sh
bash .claude/hooks/pre_publish_check.sh
```

### If you can’t run `.sh` scripts
See `docs/hooks.md` for:
- WSL / Git Bash guidance (Windows)
- Manual fallback steps (copy/paste commands)

---

## CI expectations (ruff + pytest)

After generation, GitHub Actions will run:
- `ruff` formatting/lint checks
- `pytest` test suites

Templates include:
- minimal pinned dependencies in `pyproject.toml`
- `[tool.ruff]` configuration
- `[tool.pytest.ini_options]` (or equivalent) so `pytest` runs consistently

If CI fails, start here:
- `docs/publishing/how-to-demo.md` (often includes sanity checks)
- `.github/workflows/ci.yml` (what CI actually runs)

---

## Where to start (navigation)

After generation, your main entry points are:

- **Dashboard:** `paths/advanced/README.md`
- **How to use:** `docs/how-to-use.md`
- **Commands guide:** `docs/commands.md`
- **Agents:** `docs/agents.md`
- **Skills playbook:** `docs/skills-playbook.md`
- **Evaluation rubric:** `docs/evaluation/rubric.md`
- **Memory system:** `docs/memory-system.md`
- **Claude capabilities root:** `.claude/README.md`

---

## Updating the system safely (recommended workflow)

- Keep changes PR-friendly:
  - Memory files: append-only (`.claude/memory/*.jsonl`, `best_practices.md`)
  - Tracker: derived, can be regenerated (`paths/advanced/tracker.md`)
- Prefer small PRs:
  - one improvement to docs
  - one improvement to a template
  - one improvement to evaluation rules

---

## Troubleshooting

### Claude generated a folder literally named “...”
This should not happen with the current `SETUP.md`. If it does:
- delete it
- re-run the generator prompt
- ensure you pasted the latest `SETUP.md` content

### Links in docs are broken
- Re-run the generator prompt and instruct Claude:
  - “Validate all relative links and fix any broken references.”

### My hooks don’t run on Windows
- Use WSL (recommended) or Git Bash
- Or follow the manual fallback steps in `docs/hooks.md`

---

## Repository Generator Prompt

In Claude Code, choose one:

| Command | Description |
|---------|-------------|
| `Execute @SETUP.md` | Full curriculum for your level (uses STACK.md) |
| `Execute @SETUP.md for @MY_STACK.md` | Custom stack (uses only checked items) |

Claude will ask for your learner level and generate the full learning OS into your fork.

> Re-running the setup may overwrite generated docs/templates; `.claude/memory/*` should remain append-only
